tutorial/WhatIsTicketMonster.asciidoc, before:

= What is TicketMonster?
:Author: Marius Bogoevici
:thumbnail: http://static.jboss.org/ffe/1/www/origin/ticket-monster-splash-2.png


== Preamble
TicketMonster is an example application that focuses on Java EE6 - JPA 2, CDI, EJB 3.1 and JAX-RS along with HTML5 and jQuery Mobile.  It is a moderately complex application that demonstrates how to build modern web applications optimized for mobile & desktop. TicketMonster is representative of an online ticketing broker - providing access to events (e.g. concerts, shows, etc) with an online booking application.

Apart from being a demo, TicketMonster provides an already existing application structure that you can use as a starting point for your app. You could try out your use cases, test your own ideas, or, contribute improvements back to the community.

image::gfx/octocat_social.png[]

link:http://github.com/jboss-jdf/ticket-monster[Fork us on GitHub!]

The accompanying tutorials walk you through the various tools & technologies needed to build TicketMonster on your own. Alternatively you can download TicketMonster as a completed application and import it into your favorite IDE.

Before we dive into the code, let's discuss the requirements for the application.


== Use cases

We have grouped the current use cases in two major categories: end user oriented, and administrative.


=== What can end users do?

The end users of the application want to attend some cool events. They will try to find shows, create bookings, or cancel bookings. The use cases are:

* look for current events;
* look for venues;
* select shows (events taking place at specific venues) and choose a performance time;
* book tickets;
* view current bookings;
* cancel bookings;

[[end-user-use-cases-image]]
.End user use cases
image::gfx/ticket-monster-user-use-cases.png[]


=== What can administrators do?

Administrators are more concerned the operation of the business. They will manage the _master data_: information about venues, events and shows, and will want to see how many tickets have been sold. The use cases are:

* add, remove and update events;
* add, remove and update venues (including venue layouts);
* add, remove and update shows and performances;
* monitor ticket sales for current shows;

[[administration-use-cases-image]]
.Administration use cases
image::gfx/ticket-monster-administration-use-cases.png[]


== Architecture

[[architecture-image]]
.TicketMonster architecture
image::gfx/ticket-monster-architecture.png[]

The application uses Java EE 6 services to provide business logic and persistence, utilizing technologies such as CDI, EJB 3.1 and JAX-RS, JPA 2. These services back the user-facing booking process, which is implemented using HTML5 and JavaScript, with support for mobile devices through jQuery Mobile.

The administration site is centered around CRUD use cases, so instead of writing everything manually, the business layer and UI are generated by Forge, using EJB 3.1, CDI and JAX-RS. For a better user experience, Twitter Bootstrap is used.

Monitoring sales requires staying in touch with the latest changes on the server side, so this part of the application will be developed in HTML5 and JavaScript using a polling solution.


== How can you run it?

=== Building TicketMonster

[CAUTION]
===================================================================================
In order to build the application, you will need you to 
configure Maven to use the JBoss Enterprise Maven repositories. For instructions on 
configure the Maven repositories, visit the link:https://access.redhat.com/site/documentation/en-US/JBoss_Enterprise_Application_Platform/6.3/html-single/Development_Guide/index.html#Install_the_JBoss_Enterprise_Application_Platform_6_Maven_Repository[JBoss Enterprise Application Platform 6.3 documentation].
===================================================================================

TicketMonster can be built from Maven, by runnning the following Maven command:

----
mvn clean package
----

This prepares a WAR file that you can deploy right away in a JBoss Enterprise Application Platform instance. It would use the in-built H2 database.
		
If you want to run the Arquillian tests as part of the build, you can enable one of the two available Arquillian profiles.

For running the tests in an _already running_ application server instance, use the `arq-jbossas-remote` profile.

----
mvn clean package -Parq-jbossas-remote
----

If you want the test runner to _start_ an application server instance, use the `arq-jbossas-managed` profile. You must set up the `JBOSS_HOME` property to point to the server location, or update the `src/main/test/resources/arquillian.xml` file.

----
mvn clean package -Parq-jbossas-managed
----

If you intend to deploy into link:http://openshift.com[OpenShift] with the PostgreSQL cartridge, you can use the `postgresql-openshift` profile:

----
mvn clean package -Ppostgresql-openshift
----

If you intend to deploy into link:http://openshift.com[OpenShift] with the MySQL cartridge, you can use the `mysql-openshift` profile:

----
mvn clean package -Pmysql-openshift
----
	
=== Running TicketMonster


You can run TicketMonster into a local JBoss EAP 6.3 instance or on OpenShift.


==== Running TicketMonster locally

_Start JBoss Enterprise Application Platform 6.3_.

1. Open a command line and navigate to the root of the JBoss server directory.
2. The following shows the command line to start the server with the web profile:
+
----
For Linux:   JBOSS_HOME/bin/standalone.sh
For Windows: JBOSS_HOME\bin\standalone.bat
----
		
Then, _deploy TicketMonster_.


1. Make sure you have started the JBoss Server as described above.
2. Type this command to build and deploy the archive into a running server instance.
+
----
mvn clean package jboss-as:deploy
----
+
(You can use the `arq-jbossas-remote` profile for running tests as well)

3. This will deploy `target/ticket-monster.war` to the running instance of the server.
4. Now you can see the application running at http://localhost:8080/ticket-monster.

==== Running TicketMonster in OpenShift


First, _create an OpenShift project_.

1. Make sure that you have an OpenShift domain and you have created an application using the `jbosseap-6` cartridge (for more details, get started link:https://openshift.redhat.com/app/getting_started[here]). If you want to use PostgreSQL, add the `postgresql-9.2` cartridge too. Or for MySQL, add the `mysql-5.5` cartridge.
2. Ensure that the Git repository of the project is checked out.

Then, _build and deploy it_.

1. Build TicketMonster using either: 
    * the default profile (with H2 database support)
+
----
mvn clean package
----
    
	* the `postgresql-openshift` profile (with PostgreSQL support) if the PostgreSQL cartrdige is enabled in OpenShift.
+
----            
mvn clean package -Ppostgresql-openshift
----
    
	* the `mysql-openshift` profile (with MySQL support) if the MySQL cartrdige is enabled in OpenShift.
+
----            
mvn clean package -Pmysql-openshift
----
			
2. Copy the `target/ticket-monster.war` file in the OpenShift Git repository (located at `<root-of-openshift-application-git-repository>`).
+
----
cp target/ticket-monster.war <root-of-openshift-application-git-repository>/deployments/ROOT.war
----

3. Navigate to `<root-of-openshift-application-git-repository>` folder.

4. Remove the existing `src` folder and `pom.xml` file. 
+
----
git rm -r src
git rm pom.xml
----

5. Add the copied file to the repository, commit and push to Openshift
+
----
git add deployments/ROOT.war
git commit -m "Deploy TicketMonster"
git push
----
		
6. Now you can see the application running at at `http://<app-name>-<domain-name>.rhcloud.com`


== Learn more


The example is accompanied by a series of tutorials that will walk you through the process of
creating the TicketMonster application from end to end.

After reading this series you will understand how to:

* set up your project;
* define the persistence layer of the application;
* design and implement the business layer and expose it to the front-end via RESTful endpoints;
* implement a mobile-ready front-end using HTML 5, JSON, JavaScript and jQuery Mobile;
* develop a HTML5-based administration interface rapidly using JBoss Forge;
* thoroughly test your project using JUnit and Arquillian;

Throughout the series, you will be shown how to achieve these goals using JBoss Developer Studio.

Commit message:

JDF-823 Update TicketMonster for EAP 7.
Updated version to 3.0.0-SNAPSHOT.
Replaced references to WFK with JBoss EAP.
Updated BOMs.
Updated version of Java to 1.8.
Updated XML descriptors.
Updated Maven dependencies.

tutorial/WhatIsTicketMonster.asciidoc, after:

= What is TicketMonster?
:Author: Marius Bogoevici
:thumbnail: http://static.jboss.org/ffe/1/www/origin/ticket-monster-splash-2.png


== Preamble
TicketMonster is an example application that focuses on Java EE6 - JPA 2, CDI, EJB 3.1 and JAX-RS along with HTML5 and jQuery Mobile.  It is a moderately complex application that demonstrates how to build modern web applications optimized for mobile & desktop. TicketMonster is representative of an online ticketing broker - providing access to events (e.g. concerts, shows, etc) with an online booking application.

Apart from being a demo, TicketMonster provides an already existing application structure that you can use as a starting point for your app. You could try out your use cases, test your own ideas, or, contribute improvements back to the community.

image::gfx/octocat_social.png[]

link:http://github.com/jboss-jdf/ticket-monster[Fork us on GitHub!]

The accompanying tutorials walk you through the various tools & technologies needed to build TicketMonster on your own. Alternatively you can download TicketMonster as a completed application and import it into your favorite IDE.

Before we dive into the code, let's discuss the requirements for the application.


== Use cases

We have grouped the current use cases in two major categories: end user oriented, and administrative.


=== What can end users do?

The end users of the application want to attend some cool events. They will try to find shows, create bookings, or cancel bookings. The use cases are:

* look for current events;
* look for venues;
* select shows (events taking place at specific venues) and choose a performance time;
* book tickets;
* view current bookings;
* cancel bookings;

[[end-user-use-cases-image]]
.End user use cases
image::gfx/ticket-monster-user-use-cases.png[]


=== What can administrators do?

Administrators are more concerned the operation of the business. They will manage the _master data_: information about venues, events and shows, and will want to see how many tickets have been sold. The use cases are:

* add, remove and update events;
* add, remove and update venues (including venue layouts);
* add, remove and update shows and performances;
* monitor ticket sales for current shows;

[[administration-use-cases-image]]
.Administration use cases
image::gfx/ticket-monster-administration-use-cases.png[]


== Architecture

[[architecture-image]]
.TicketMonster architecture
image::gfx/ticket-monster-architecture.png[]

The application uses Java EE 6 services to provide business logic and persistence, utilizing technologies such as CDI, EJB 3.1 and JAX-RS, JPA 2. These services back the user-facing booking process, which is implemented using HTML5 and JavaScript, with support for mobile devices through jQuery Mobile.

The administration site is centered around CRUD use cases, so instead of writing everything manually, the business layer and UI are generated by Forge, using EJB 3.1, CDI and JAX-RS. For a better user experience, Twitter Bootstrap is used.

Monitoring sales requires staying in touch with the latest changes on the server side, so this part of the application will be developed in HTML5 and JavaScript using a polling solution.


== How can you run it?

=== Building TicketMonster

[CAUTION]
===================================================================================
In order to build the application, you will need you to 
configure Maven to use the JBoss Enterprise Maven repositories. For instructions on 
configure the Maven repositories, visit the link:https://access.redhat.com/site/documentation/en-US/JBoss_Enterprise_Application_Platform/6.3/html-single/Development_Guide/index.html#Install_the_JBoss_Enterprise_Application_Platform_6_Maven_Repository[JBoss Enterprise Application Platform 6.3 documentation].
===================================================================================

TicketMonster can be built from Maven, by runnning the following Maven command:

----
mvn clean package
----

This prepares a WAR file that you can deploy right away in a JBoss Enterprise Application Platform instance. It would use the in-built H2 database.
		
If you want to run the Arquillian tests as part of the build, you can enable one of the two available Arquillian profiles.

For running the tests in an _already running_ application server instance, use the `arq-wildfly-remote` profile.

----
mvn clean package -Parq-wildfly-remote
----

If you want the test runner to _start_ an application server instance, use the `arq-wildfly-managed` profile. You must set up the `JBOSS_HOME` property to point to the server location, or update the `src/main/test/resources/arquillian.xml` file.

----
mvn clean package -Parq-wildfly-managed
----

If you intend to deploy into link:http://openshift.com[OpenShift] with the PostgreSQL cartridge, you can use the `postgresql-openshift` profile:

----
mvn clean package -Ppostgresql-openshift
----

If you intend to deploy into link:http://openshift.com[OpenShift] with the MySQL cartridge, you can use the `mysql-openshift` profile:

----
mvn clean package -Pmysql-openshift
----
	
=== Running TicketMonster


You can run TicketMonster into a local JBoss EAP 6.3 instance or on OpenShift.


==== Running TicketMonster locally

_Start JBoss Enterprise Application Platform 6.3_.

1. Open a command line and navigate to the root of the JBoss server directory.
2. The following shows the command line to start the server with the web profile:
+
----
For Linux:   JBOSS_HOME/bin/standalone.sh
For Windows: JBOSS_HOME\bin\standalone.bat
----
		
Then, _deploy TicketMonster_.


1. Make sure you have started the JBoss Server as described above.
2. Type this command to build and deploy the archive into a running server instance.
+
----
mvn clean package wildfly:deploy
----
+
(You can use the `arq-wildfly-remote` profile for running tests as well)

3. This will deploy `target/ticket-monster.war` to the running instance of the server.
4. Now you can see the application running at http://localhost:8080/ticket-monster.

==== Running TicketMonster in OpenShift


First, _create an OpenShift project_.

1. Make sure that you have an OpenShift domain and you have created an application using the `jbosseap-6` cartridge (for more details, get started link:https://openshift.redhat.com/app/getting_started[here]). If you want to use PostgreSQL, add the `postgresql-9.2` cartridge too. Or for MySQL, add the `mysql-5.5` cartridge.
2. Ensure that the Git repository of the project is checked out.

Then, _build and deploy it_.

1. Build TicketMonster using either: 
    * the default profile (with H2 database support)
+
----
mvn clean package
----
    
	* the `postgresql-openshift` profile (with PostgreSQL support) if the PostgreSQL cartrdige is enabled in OpenShift.
+
----            
mvn clean package -Ppostgresql-openshift
----
    
	* the `mysql-openshift` profile (with MySQL support) if the MySQL cartrdige is enabled in OpenShift.
+
----            
mvn clean package -Pmysql-openshift
----
			
2. Copy the `target/ticket-monster.war` file in the OpenShift Git repository (located at `<root-of-openshift-application-git-repository>`).
+
----
cp target/ticket-monster.war <root-of-openshift-application-git-repository>/deployments/ROOT.war
----

3. Navigate to `<root-of-openshift-application-git-repository>` folder.

4. Remove the existing `src` folder and `pom.xml` file. 
+
----
git rm -r src
git rm pom.xml
----

5. Add the copied file to the repository, commit and push to Openshift
+
----
git add deployments/ROOT.war
git commit -m "Deploy TicketMonster"
git push
----
		
6. Now you can see the application running at at `http://<app-name>-<domain-name>.rhcloud.com`


== Learn more


The example is accompanied by a series of tutorials that will walk you through the process of
creating the TicketMonster application from end to end.

After reading this series you will understand how to:

* set up your project;
* define the persistence layer of the application;
* design and implement the business layer and expose it to the front-end via RESTful endpoints;
* implement a mobile-ready front-end using HTML 5, JSON, JavaScript and jQuery Mobile;
* develop a HTML5-based administration interface rapidly using JBoss Forge;
* thoroughly test your project using JUnit and Arquillian;

Throughout the series, you will be shown how to achieve these goals using JBoss Developer Studio.
